Add blog post for 2021 recap (#68)
scm-manager/website: content/posts/2022-01-03-scm-manager-plugin-development/index.md

---
title: SCM-Manager - Recap 2021
date: 2022-01-03T10:00:00+0000
author: Eduard Heimbuch
categories:
- scm-manager
- release
keywords:
- recap
- plugin
- development
- guide
- tutorial
---

Hey SCM-Manager Community,

It's the first monday of the new year, and we just started working on the next major features to improve your SCM-Manager experience.
But before going forward we wanted to do a little recap and share our highlights regarding SCM-Manager of 2021.

## Recap

> We had 16 minor releases in the last year including these big features/changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We had 16 feature releases in the last year including these big changes:
```

I tried to avoid the word `minor` as it kind of downplays our achievements I feel.

- Repository Import and Export for Git, HG and Subversion

> - Frontend rebuild with react-query which dramatically improved the performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Frontend refactored to utilize react-query which dramatically improved performance
```
Should we write `perceived performance`, because it didn't actually make the requests faster, just make it look more responsive ?

> - Metrics for SCM-Manager which can be collected with the related plugins as [JSON](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-json-plugin/) or [PromQL](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-prometheus-plugin/)

Author: ```suggestion
- Metrics for SCM-Manager which can be collected with the related plugins as [JSON](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-json-plugin/) or [OpenMetrics](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-prometheus-plugin/)
```

> - Metrics for SCM-Manager which can be collected with the related plugins as [JSON](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-json-plugin/) or [PromQL](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-metrics-prometheus-plugin/)

Reviewer 2: The plugin does not collect the metrics as promql. PromQL is the query language of prometheus. The format is called [OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/).

- Global Notification System
- Repository Mirroring with the [Repository Mirror Plugin](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-repository-mirror-plugin/)
- Global search for most entities in SCM-Manager

> - Rebuild of the repository overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Complete overhaul of the repository overview
```

> - High Contrast Mode and improved accessibility in general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added High Contrast Mode and improved accessibility in general
```

- Introduction of the Cloudogu Plugin Center (with more features to come)

> Besides, the core changes we also added some helpful plugins which can lift your SCM-Manager workflows into a new level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the core changes, we also created some useful plugins which can lift your SCM-Manager workflows up to a new level.
```

> We cannot explain all plugins here, but we strongly recommend having a look for the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We cannot go into the details of all the new plugins here, but we strongly recommend having a look at the following:
```

> - [Gotenberg Plugin](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-gotenberg-plugin/) - Renders office files like Word or Excel inside your SCM-Manager file view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Gotenberg Plugin](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-gotenberg-plugin/) - Renders office worker files like Word or Excel inside your SCM-Manager file view
```

Author: I am not sure about that.We have defined for us that it is about office workers, but actually it just renders office files and that can be used by anyone.  Nevertheless, thanks for all the good suggestions!

> - [Landingpage Plugin](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-landingpage-plugin/) - Shows a personal page for each user including all related information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Landingpage Plugin](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-landingpage-plugin/) - Adds additional relevant information to each user's repository overview page
```

> - [Content Search](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-content-search-plugin/) - Enables search inside the files of your repositories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Content Search](https://scm-manager.org/plugins/scm-content-search-plugin/) - Enables search for content inside files of your repositories
```

## Blog Post Series

> We are aware that we are mostly developers and marketing seems not to be our greatest strength. SCM-Manager is getting bigger 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SCM-Manager is getting bigger 
```
Although this might be true and honest, I don't think that this sentence adds to the overall point of the message.

> and more complex with every release. We are aware of this, because of which we are working to make plugin development easier and more accessible for everyone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and more complex with every release. We are aware of this and work on making plugin development easier and more accessible for everyone. 
```

> and more complex with every release. So we working against this trend to make plugin development easier and more accessible to everyone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and more complex with every release. We are aware of this, because of which we are working to make plugin development easier and more accessible for everyone. 
```

> If you are interested in developing your own SCM-Manager plugins we would love to share our knowledge and support your plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in developing your own SCM-Manager plugins we would love to share our knowledge with you and support your plugin.
```

> Some month ago we released a guide to create your first SCM-Manager plugin with real examples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some months ago we released a guide on how to create your first SCM-Manager plugin. 
```

> You can read this series of 3 on the [Cloudogu Blog](https://cloudogu.com/en/blog/scm-manager-plugin-development-intro_en). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read this three part series on the [Cloudogu Blog](https://cloudogu.com/en/blog/scm-manager-plugin-development-intro_en). It is based on the development of the [Custom Links Plugin](https://github.com/scm-manager/scm-custom-links-plugin).
```

## Final words
Even with the world going crazy it seems the last year was not that bad for SCM-Manager. 

> We still have many cards up our sleeves to deliver some exciting features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We still have many cards up our sleeves to deliver many exciting features.
```

> If you are joining us on this trip, feel free to assign to our [community](https://community.cloudogu.com/c/scm-manager/) and help us create a product which every user may enjoy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to share this journey with us, feel free to join our [community](https://community.cloudogu.com/c/scm-manager/) and provide your input.
```
